# Rhizomatix
Rhizomatix Blog: Experiments in Technology as Freedom! (As in free speech)

echnology was supposed to connect and liberate us. So how did we end up in our present dystopia? Most users rely on a handful of programs & platforms that surveil them, ultimately transforming people into a series of data points. Inefficient networking systems are unevenly distributed and controlled by monopolistic telecom corporations. Perfectly fine technologies are victimized by a culture of obsolenscence that wants users to only focus on new commodities.

In order to combat these disturbing tendencies, our blog focuses on the seeds for radical transformation and the freedom that still exist within technologies. We can unleash their latent power by focusing on a number of strategies. First, we decentralize technologies outside of state or corporate control. Second, we adopt a DIY approach, nuturing our curiosity by learning how the tech that matters to us works. Third, we explore the still-relevant, potent possibilities in older technologies that the capitalist marketplace wants us to consider outdated. Fourth, we freely share knowledge so that more and more people learn how to take control over the technologies in their lives.   

Our project is named "Rhizomatix" in homage to Gilles Deleuze & Felix Guattari's rhizomatic theory. The two use the biological concept of the rhizome as inspiration: plants that send out roots & shoots from various, self-generating nodes [i.e., ginger, poison oak, Venus fly-traps]. Deleuze & Guattari think of culture in this way: "rhizome has no beginning or end; it is always in the middle, between things, interbeing, intermezzo." Human interaction is always shifting, adaptive and freeing. We believe that becoming more rhizomatic in our attitudes towards technology can seriously aid in our collective liberation. 
